The governing body would like to share with the Bessel family some information on the reasons behind a number of major decisions affecting the worldwide work and particularly those in special full-time service.
As you know in the next few months a good number of special full-time servants will be returning to the ranks of the regular pioneers.
Why is this necessary?
First we would like to make clear that we are confident that Jehovah is richly blessing the worldwide work.
Also the financial support of our brothers has in no way diminished.
In fact we have even seen a fine increase in contributions since the May 2015 program on JW Broadcasting.
However as the global preaching work has expanded over the past several years our expenses have greatly increased.
For instance we have experienced a tremendous growth in personnel.
As of September the 1st 2015 we reached 83,790 in special full-time service.
Can you imagine the cost involved to care for so many special full-time servants?
At the same time many of our major branch facilities are more than 30 years old.
These offices require extensive maintenance and renovation.
In some cases new branch facilities are needed.
Also consider that we will soon have literature available in some 850 languages.
This translation work requires additional facilities and personnel.
Finally consider the thousands of kingdom halls that we need to construct.
Not just in lands with limited resources but in Europe and the United States where one kingdom hall may cost more than a million dollars.
It was obvious to the governing body that we could not expect our brothers to continually increase their donations.
We needed to reduce expenses. To accomplish this we would need to reduce personnel.
Reduce the number of publications we are printing.
Put some non-essential construction projects on hold and reduce or eliminate various services at Bethel.
What has been the response to these adjustments?
We have been overwhelmed by the positive willing spirit of all you dear brothers and sisters to make these adjustments a success.
We have truly felt your whole hearted support.
Therefore we now look to Jehovah to bless these adjustments so that we can move ahead with the all important preaching work.
All to the glory and praise of our magnificent God.
We trust that these comments will help you to understand our current situation and to know that we truly love and appreciate each one of you.
With all good wishes your brothers governing body of Jehovah's Witnesses.